okay place those goggles over your eyes
strap in
and don't forget to hold on tight we're
gonna see how fast we can really go
long legs on a tall yet muscular frame
not exactly the norm when compared to
the shorter builds of short distance
runners
but the fastest man alive makes it look
easy to move that fast
so far the fastest anyone has run is
just over
27 miles per hour a speed reached
briefly by sprinter usain bolt at the
halfway point of his world record 100
meter dash
and humans can go even faster the top
speed we could reach may come down to
how quickly the muscles in our body can
move
our muscles should be able to reach
speeds as fast as 40 miles per hour
the reason we can't do it is that we're
in the air for too long
our limbs can only take a certain amount
of force when they strike on the ground
that's why on skates you're able to
outpace a runner
gliding allows for more traction what
would make us
a lot faster is simple ish longer legs
really wide hips or extra legs like an
insect
i give running on all fours a truck it
would be fun at least
in 2016 speed records weren't just
broken on the running track
they were broken on the ski slopes in
france
the world record for downhill skiing
belongs to an italian ski instructor and
a mountain
guide in 2016 assisted only by gravity
the instructor set a human land speed
record of around 158 miles per hour
skiing across the zone near the bottom
of a course in just over
two seconds wow i can barely stand up on
skis
let alone move half that fast the
fastest a tiger beetle can sprint
is up to five miles per hour doesn't
sound that fast really but
consider this it's covering 120 of its
body lengths in a single second
for comparison bolt covers about six
body lengths per second
to match this beetle he'd have to run
about 480 miles per hour
that's twice as fast as a peregrine
falcon
tiger beetles have extremely sharp
eyesight for insects
but while they're running the world
turns into a featureless smudge
this means the beetle has to stop every
now and then and see where it's going
so they're pretty fast but there's a
mite
a special mite whose speed is equivalent
to a human
running roughly 1 300 miles per hour
at its quickest this sesame seed sized
mite can move 322 body lengths per
second
wow most cats run zero times their body
length for the majority of the day
yeah well we're not going to be moving
that fast anytime soon
we've got a few tricks up our sleeve
thanks to our big brains
we can use technology the fastest we've
ever traveled on land over one mile
is 763 miles per hour it was done back
in 1997
in nevada in a thrust ssc
that's a big improvement from the first
holder of the record
in 1898 a frenchman hit the
actually pretty amazing speed of 39
miles per hour in his
electric powered car through the air
we've traveled at mach 3.3
that's around 2100 miles per hour
it's all thanks to the fastest jet
aircraft in the world
the lockheed sr-71 black bird
amazingly this plane doesn't have a top
speed
the only thing limiting its speed is
temperature
if it was allowed to fly as fast as it
wanted it would literally melt in
mid-air
on water the speed record is just over
275 knots
or a little over 317 miles per hour
a jet powered hydro plane called the
spirit of australia
did it back in 1978 not bad
if you want to get to your favorite
fishing spot quickly
in 1896 there weren't that many driving
laws
but still walter arnold decided to break
one of them
and became the first man in history to
receive a speeding ticket
the speed limit at the time was two
miles per hour
you could have walked faster and most
people did
but that was too slow for arnold who
decided to race through the town at
eight miles per hour eventually he was
caught
and received a one shilling fine quite
hefty for the time
a man named felix was taken over 127
thousand feet into the edge of space in
a balloon
that when fully inflated was about the
size of the statue of liberty
having no choice but to jump out he
eventually reached the fastest free fall
speed ever
843 miles per hour in a specially
designed suit of course
landing back on solid ground in just
over nine minutes
he became the first person to break the
sound barrier
in free fall the fastest speed a human
has ever traveled
is around 25 000 miles per hour
the crew of apollo 10 reached this on
may 26
1969 this was also the highest speed
ever reached by a manned vehicle
are you feeling the hankering for speed
yet
good news the earth rotates once roughly
every 24 hours
math math math this means that the earth
and you are spinning at around 1 000
miles per hour
it's not including how fast we're all
moving through space on this giant rock
we're zipping along at 18 miles per
second
that's 67 000 miles per hour through the
dark
vacuum of space our sun and the milky
way appear to be moving
at an average speed of 448 000 miles per
hour through space
while that sounds extremely fast and it
is
it still take about 230 million years
to travel all the way around the milky
way
so you're probably moving a lot faster
than you thought you were
but there's a good reason you're not a
human puddle right now
speed obviously isn't the issue the real
issue is
acceleration changes in speed are
expressed in
g forces which just means the
acceleration of an
object relative to earth's gravity if
you're sitting on the sofa
you're experiencing one g now most of us
can withstand up to four to six g's like
on a roller coaster
some pilots manage up to about nine g's
for a second or two
but sustained g-forces are a big problem
some pilots wear special high g suits
and are trained to flex their torso
muscles
to keep blood from whooshing out of
their heads and into their legs
they can still operate their aircraft
properly at about 9 g's
the record for temporary gs is an
amazing 82.6
g's riding a rocket-powered sled
backward in 1958
eli beating junior hit the brakes and
stopped in a tenth of a second
as part of testing for space travel
blacking out but only suffering back
bruises
it was a remarkable demonstration of the
body's resilience
to short bursts of deceleration more
than 100 years ago
a super famous scientist named einstein
came up with an idea called relativity
there was an experiment that
tested this out with two clocks set to
the exact same time
one clock stayed on earth while the
other flew on a commercial plane
after the airplane returned from its
trip around the world
the two clocks were compared the clock
on the fast-moving plane
was slightly behind the other one so yes
time travel is a real thing if you're
going faster than another object
now another place time slows down is
when you're in line at the checkout
stand at the supermarket
but hey it's all relative the safest
place to test high-speed travel
is space it's an empty vacuum after all
but imagine speeding through space
anything the size of a grain of sand
would become a high speed projectile the
real danger though
would be small hydrogen atoms just
floating around
the hydrogen would shatter into
particles that would pass into the ship
it wouldn't be pretty your spacecraft
would also heat up really quickly too
sounds dangerous you go first